Unit 06 (#61)
huggingface/audio-transformers-course: chapters/en/chapter6/evaluation.mdx

> # Evaluating text-to-speech models

Reviewer: I would maybe also add a word on how TTS models are evaluated during training (compute the mean-square error loss between the predicted spectrogram and generated one)

> # Evaluating text-to-speech models

Author: Added a couple of sentences at the beginning

# Evaluating text-to-speech models

During the training time, text-to-speech models optimize for the mean-square error loss (or mean absolute error) between 
the predicted spectrogram values and the generated ones. Both MSE and MAE encourage the model to minimize the difference 

> between the predicted and target spectrograms. However, evaluation of the resulting text-to-speech (TTS) models is much 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
between the predicted and target spectrograms. However, since TTS is a one-to-many mapping problem, i.e. the output spectrogram for a given text can be represented in many different ways, the evaluation of the resulting text-to-speech (TTS) models is much 
```

Just so we clarify that the main problem here is not MSE but the fact that the output spectrogram can have multiple legal representations.

opinion scores (MOS). MOS is a subjective scoring system that allows human evaluators to rate the perceived quality of 
synthesized speech on a scale from 1 to 5. These scores are typically gathered through listening tests, where human 
participants listen to and rate the synthesized speech samples.

One of the main reasons why objective metrics are challenging to develop for TTS evaluation is the subjective nature of 
speech perception. Human listeners have diverse preferences and sensitivities to various aspects of speech, including 
pronunciation, intonation, naturalness, and clarity. Capturing these perceptual nuances with a single numerical value 
is a daunting task. At the same time, the subjectivity of the human evaluation makes it challenging to compare and 
benchmark different TTS systems.

Furthermore, this kind of evaluation may overlook certain important aspects of speech synthesis, such as naturalness, 
expressiveness, and emotional impact. These qualities are difficult to quantify objectively but are highly relevant in 
applications where the synthesized speech needs to convey human-like qualities and evoke appropriate emotional responses.

> In summary, evaluating text-to-speech models is a complex task due to the absence of objective metrics. The most common 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In summary, evaluating text-to-speech models is a complex task due to the absence of one truly objective metric. The most common 
```

We have `P-FID`, `Speaker Similarity Score`, `Mel Cepstral Distance` and a bit more, but none are truly objective. They depict a part of the objective eval, unlike ASR, where WER is truly objective.
